After you’re done visiting the famous Catedral de Barcelona and 
, you may be asking yourself what else there is to see in northern Spain.
What many tourists don’t know is that Barcelona has another medieval church by the name of 
, and you can visit it for free at certain times of the day.
I don’t know if I enjoyed this one quite as much as other stuff in the area, but it’s easy to tack onto any Barcelona itinerary and the architecture is still pretty great.
Santa Maria Del Mar is a 14th century Gothic style catholic church in Barcelona. It was built by the Kingdom of Aragon between 1329 and 1383.
Over the years, the building has been damaged by fires, earthquakes, and wars, but steady restoration work has kept it looking grand as ever.
  
It’s worth taking a stroll around the outside of the building before going inside, but it’s honestly very hard to take pictures of the outside of this church since it’s surrounded by buildings on all sides and the streets are narrow.
The good news is that the inside is better than the outside. The Gothic ceilings and pillars are massive, and you feel tiny when you first step inside and look up.
Of course you also have the usual fancy chandeliers and stained glass windows that are typical in these kinds of cathedrals.
  
 Compared to the Barcelona Cathedral, I thought this one was better lit on the inside and that made it easier to see what you’re looking at (also easier to take photos).
  
 Speaking of photos, there’s no restriction on taking them inside. There’s also a guided tour available that includes visiting the rooftop, and it gives you a great 360 degree view of the city.
  
 I would budget about 45-60 minutes for visiting Santa Maria Del Mar, although it would be possible to stay longer, especially if you want to explore the rooftop.
  
 
  
Entry is free before 1:00 PM or after 5:00 PM, otherwise the entrance fee is €5.
The guided tours to the rooftop are €8.50.
  
The church is located in the Ribera/El Born area of Barcelona, Spain.
You can get there by rail or taxi, or you can walk to it from some nearby hotels.
I stayed in the Gothic Quarter at 
 that was just a 5 minute walk to either this church or the Catedral de Barcelona.
  
I stayed at 
 in a private room for $54 USD per night. The hotel is located in the Gothic district of Barcelona, just a short walk from the cathedrals, restaurants, beach, and Plaza Cataluña Square. 
The famous Catedral de Barcelona and 
 were just a 5 minute walk from the hotel! Barcelona is not the cheapest city to travel, so I think you'll find this hotel is one of the best 'bang for your buck' options in this area. 
Prices may fluctuate from time to time, so just keep an eye out for a good deal. 
I’m going to the north of Spain at the end of December. Thank you for the interesting article and information.
 
 
 
Hey there! I'm 
, an American who has been traveling the world full time for 8 years now. 
 
 My wife Intan and I are usually in our second home 
, but our journeys take us to 
 all over the world. 
 
 Please tag along!
Subscribe to my newsletter for the latest blog posts, tips, & travel guides. Let's stay updated!
© The World Travel Guy 2024 
 
 
 • 
 • 
 
 
 Some of the pages on my travel blog contain affiliate links. Whenever you buy something through one of these links, I get a small commission 
. As an affiliate, I only recommend products and services that I feel are high quality and helpful to my readers. Thanks for your support.
Montserrat is a natural park in northern Spain with one of the best mountain ranges in the whole country. It’s also the location of an old Catholic monastery from the 11th century that you can still go inside today. The sights in this park are awesome!
The name Montserrat means ‘serrated mountain’ and it comes from the jagged shape of the mountain peaks when you look at them from a distance. Montserrat Spain is located near Barcelona so it’s very easy to visit on a day trip from the city, but some tips may be helpful.
This travel guide will explain how to get to Montserrat Spain from Barcelona (with or without a tour), what to do there, how to see the mountains and monastery, and everything else you need to know before you go!
Montserrat Plaza
Montserrat Spain is pretty easy to reach on a day trip from Barcelona.
First of all, if you’re on a tight schedule and want to skip the extra steps involved in arranging your own trip to Montserrat, there are a number of companies that offer tours.
Here’s a 
 with an English speaking guide and optional lunch included.
If you’d rather make your own arrangements and go without a tour, that’s covered next.
 
  
Montserrat is a mountain range and natural park located in Catalonia, which is in northeast Spain.
The distance from Barcelona to Montserrat is about 60 kilometers (37 miles), so it’s easy to visit on a day trip.
  
There are three main ways to get to Monserrat: train, bus, or car.
I’ll explain the train method here first, since it’s the most common way to get to Montserrat and is generally what I’d recommend. The train takes you to the foot of the mountains at Montserrat Spain, and then you take a quick cable car or rack railway the rest of the way up to the natural park. 
Total one way travel time to Montserrat by train and cable car is about 1.5 hours, so it’s quite doable as a day trip from Barcelona.
Montserrat as seen from below, just before boarding the cable car.
Montserrat monastery and plaza as seen from one of the main walking paths.
The cable car ride takes about 5-10 minutes and the views are incredible.
The view right after you step off the cable car.
There is a company called Autocars Julia that runs a bus daily from Barcelona to Montserrat Spain and back. The bus only runs once per day in each direction. It leaves from the Estacio Sants train station in Barcelona at 9:15 AM, and then goes back at 6 PM. 
The bus price is €5.10, so it’s a bit cheaper than the train option. Their contact number is 
, and 
.
  
If you rent a car in Barcelona, you can 
 and then ride the cable car or rack railway mentioned in the train section. If you’d rather book a tour, there are also some companies offering prearranged day tours to Montserrat with a guide.
The view looking back, right after finishing the cable car ride.
You can get some amazing views like this with only a short hike in Montserrat Natural Park.
The first thing you’ll see in Montserrat natural park is the jagged mountains stretching up around you in all directions.
Montserrat has a bunch of hiking trails, and they all give you great views of these unique looking mountains. After you’re dropped off at the monastery plaza in Montserrat, I’d recommend taking the Sant Joan Funicular up to the main junction of trails and then doing several hikes from there.
This is what I did, and it allowed me to knock out most of the trails in Montserrat in one day.
One of the mountain views from the Montserrat plaza.
If you use the main junction of trails as a starting point, all of the hikes are relatively flat and easy, so if you keep a good pace then you can probably finish all of them in one day.
If you happen to be a rock climber and you’re looking for something more difficult, there are also lots of great opportunities for that here.
Otherwise, you can still walk the main trails and get some incredible views of the mountains in Montserrat. The last cable car down from Montserrat is at 7 PM, so if you start your day early then you’ll have lots of time for sightseeing.
Montserrat is a great place for rock climbing.
One of the first views from the Saint Jeroni trail.
The Catholic monastery at Montserrat Spain is from the 11th century, and the inside is awesome.
The ceiling of the basilica is really impressive, and there’s even a huge pipe organ inside that dates from the 1800s. It’s free to go inside the monastery, and photos are allowed in most rooms.
It doesn’t take very long to tour the monastery, so I would give hiking first priority unless you’re really interested in the history or architecture of the monastery.
I visited the monastery at the end of my Montserrat trip, and spent about 30 minutes inside. It’s definitely worth going inside at least briefly.
Artistic figures on the outside of the monastery.
Inside the basilica of Montserrat.
Montserrat has a small museum that includes some pieces from well known artists like Monet and Picasso. The entrance fee for the museum is €7.
Near the monastery there’s also a cafe and restaurant, but the prices for the food there are pretty high so it’s better to pack a lunch or eat in Barcelona if possible before coming to Montserrat.
The main plaza at Montserrat.
Another classic view from the main junction of trails in Montserrat.
See the rock climber in blue?
I stayed at 
 in a private room for $54 USD per night. The hotel is located in the Gothic district of Barcelona, just a short walk from the cathedrals, restaurants, beach, and Plaza Cataluña Square. 
The famous Catedral de Barcelona and 
 were just a 5 minute walk from the hotel! Barcelona is not the cheapest city to travel, so I think you'll find this hotel is one of the best 'bang for your buck' options in this area. 
Prices may fluctuate from time to time, so just keep an eye out for a good deal. 
Very good post and very good photos. It reminds me of my trip to Barcelona
 I Recommend to travel on the rack railway
 
 
 
Hey there! I'm 
, an American who has been traveling the world full time for 8 years now. 
 
 My wife Intan and I are usually in our second home 
, but our journeys take us to 
 all over the world. 
 
 Please tag along!
Subscribe to my newsletter for the latest blog posts, tips, & travel guides. Let's stay updated!
© The World Travel Guy 2024 
 
 
 • 
 • 
 
 
 Some of the pages on my travel blog contain affiliate links. Whenever you buy something through one of these links, I get a small commission 
. As an affiliate, I only recommend products and services that I feel are high quality and helpful to my readers. Thanks for your support.
