India is a big culture shock. It may be hard to look past the overpopulation, traffic, and poverty when you first get here, but India does have some amazing architecture and natural sights, with famous landmarks like the 
 in Agra, and snow capped mountains in the Himalayas.
The Golden Triangle of India is a popular tourist circuit that goes through Delhi, Agra and Jaipur. There are a lot of historical buildings in this area, but the main draw is the incredible white marble Taj Mahal. This famous world monument is a masterpiece and it should be on every traveler's bucket list.
Other worthwhile attractions in the Golden Triangle include Humayun's Tomb in Delhi, and the Hawa Mahal in Jaipur. Read through this complete India travel guide for more info on what to expect!
Hindi & English, with many other local languages
Hinduism
eVisa available for 
Varies by altitude & geography
Uber
As a tourist, your main airports in India will be New Delhi (code: DEL) and Jaipur (code: JAI). These have lots of direct flights from other countries around the world. You can 
 on Skyscanner.
India is a relatively safe travel destination, with a low homicide rate of 
 (48% lower than the global average). Still, sexual assaults are common in India, so women traveling alone may want to join a shared tour or other group if possible. 
Road safety can be an issue too, because the driving and traffic in India can be chaotic and dangerous; taking the train is a safer bet whenever it's an option.
India is a very budget friendly place to travel, with 
, but this is one place in Asia where you get what you pay for. Meals are also cheap, costing about 80 to 400 Rupees depending on location. 
Transportation in India is generally by tuk-tuk or car, but the train is better for long distance trips. Short distance trips can be done with the Uber transportation app.
Hey there! I'm 
, an American who has been traveling the world full time for 8 years now. 
 
 My wife Intan and I are usually in our second home 
, but our journeys take us to 
 all over the world. 
 
 Please tag along!
The best India tours & activities
My latest blog posts about India
India has some amazing architecture and natural sights, with famous landmarks like the Taj Mahal in Agra, and snow capped mountains in the Himalayas. Most nationalities (except …
The Taj Mahal of India always seemed like the coolest thing. Especially as a 90s kid growing up with Aladdin and Age of Empires. I never thought …
Feel free to 
 if you have travel questions, comments, or suggestions!
 
 I'll try to get back to you!
Subscribe to my newsletter for the latest blog posts, tips, & travel guides. Let's stay updated!
© The World Travel Guy 2024 
 
 
 • 
 • 
 
 
 Some of the pages on my travel blog contain affiliate links. Whenever you buy something through one of these links, I get a small commission 
. As an affiliate, I only recommend products and services that I feel are high quality and helpful to my readers. Thanks for your support.
The Taj Mahal of India always seemed like the coolest thing. Especially as a 90s kid growing up with Aladdin and Age of Empires.
I never thought I’d see it in person someday. It really does feel like you’re stepping into a Disney movie or something!
This wonder of the world is located in Agra, India, and it’s relatively easy to visit on a day trip from New Delhi or Jaipur as well.
This travel guide will explain how to get to the Taj Mahal and what to expect, including the current entrance fees, where to stay, and everything else you need to know before you go!
The Taj Mahal is a huge monument, palace, and tomb built in 1632 by emperor Shah Jahan for his favorite wife, Mumtaz Mahal. The couple is buried together inside the Taj Mahal.
The white marble dome was built by 20,000 artisans and the project took decades to finish. It’s surrounded by a 40 acre garden with pools, fountains, and decorative walls.
Today, the Taj Mahal is 
 and “one of the universally admired masterpieces of the world’s heritage.”
It gets over 8 million visitors per year.
  
  
First of all, most nationalities will need a visa to visit India, which is given in the form of an electronic visa (eVisa) since November 2014.
This is required (except for Bhutanese and Nepali citizens) if you want to visit India and see the Taj Mahal.
It’s not very hard to apply for and get this eVisa to visit India. I wrote 
 that explains all of the steps.
  
  
If you’re on a tight schedule and want to skip the extra steps involved in arranging your own trip to the Taj Mahal, or if you’d rather travel with a tour guide for safety or convenience, there are options for doing that.
There are a number of companies that offer 
, with free pickup and drop-off at your hotel in Delhi.
If you’d rather make your own arrangements and go without a group, that’s covered next.
 
  
First things first — where is the Taj Mahal? The Taj Mahal is located in the city of Agra, in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, India.
Agra does not have its own international airport. That means the closest international airport to fly into is Indira Gandhi International Airport (DEL) in New Delhi, which is 140 miles (230 km) from Agra.
The 2nd closest airport would be Jaipur International Airport (JAI) in the city of Jaipur. You can 
 at Skyscanner.
  
From Delhi (or Jaipur), you can get to Agra by car, bus, or train.
I would generally recommend taking the train because it’s safer, cheaper, and faster. The train ride takes about 2 hours and costs 755 INR (~$11 USD).
India as a country does not have a good road safety record (big understatement), and there are plenty of statistics 
 out there that would shock you. That’s the main reason why I opted for the train when I visited the Taj.
The only downside of taking the train is that it’s a bit more complicated.
  
Once you arrive in Agra, there are hotels if you want to stay near the Taj Mahal.
I would recommend staying at least one night near the Taj, that way you can do everything at a relaxed pace without worrying about going back to Delhi the same evening.
I booked a hotel within a 5 minute walking distance of the Taj, and it was super convenient being able to get there and back to my room easily on foot.
  
  
There are three entrance gates for the Taj Mahal — west, south, and east — but most hotels for foreigners are situated near the east gate.
Vehicles are not allowed within 500 meters of the Taj because of pollution, so you will have to walk this last stretch on foot.
Prepare to be bugged! There are lots of persistent freelance guides and touts on this street who will try to sell you a rickshaw ride to the gate.
With that said, if you come here in the mid-summer heat and you have some spare change, the rickshaw ride may actually be a good investment!
  
There is a pretty strict security process when you reach the gates at the Taj Mahal.
No backpacks are allowed, and no items are allowed except for essentials like your phone, camera, and a water bottle.
Sadly, other things like food, camera tripods, and phone chargers are NOT allowed.
There are luggage storage facilities at the gates, but I didn’t trust these so I brought only my phone and wallet when I visited.
  
These entrance fees are current as of 2019.
  
The first thing you will see as you enter the Taj Mahal building complex is a huge gate — the ‘Great Gate’.
This is actually pretty impressive, and it’s worth stopping to take some photos.
If you still don’t have a guide at this point don’t worry, because someone 
 come along and make it their duty in life to become your tour guide!
One guy in particular followed me around for the longest time and wouldn’t stop bugging me. His persistence paid off and I finally paid him to take a bunch of photos for me.
  
 When you walk through the Great Gate, you will finally see the Taj Mahal for the first time.
  
 I don’t mean to exaggerate or anything, but I was totally dumbstruck when I walked through the door and first saw the Taj. It’s really breathtaking.
  
 My guide was prattling on about some Taj history facts as part of his impromptu tour, but I totally zoned out for a minute and it felt like I was alone with this incredible hunk of white marble!
  
 I knew what it was and I had seen it in pop culture many times before, but I never thought I would find myself here.
  
 
  
  
You can go inside the Taj, but you will be required to remove your shoes/sandals and go barefoot, or wear shoe covers.
This is to protect the marble flooring since there are millions of people walking through here every year.
Sadly you aren’t allowed to take photos inside the Taj, which I assume is out of respect for the dead (remember, it is technically a tomb).
The inside is nothing mind blowing, but it’s definitely ornate and fancy just like the outside. I’d give it a quick look.
  
  
Any month is OK for visiting the Taj Mahal, but the summer months (especially April-July) are not ideal because Agra can get 
 hot around that time.
I went in late May and the temperature was over 110 F (43 C) — like I said, not ideal. But it was still better than nothing!
Any time of day is good for taking photos of the Taj, but I think late morning or early afternoon is best. The big marble dome is lit up better at this time, so it shines bright white.
The main benefit of visiting early in the morning is that it’s easier to get pictures taken without other people standing in them.
 The Taj Mahal is closed on Fridays. Aside from that, it’s generally open every day of the year from sunrise to sunset.
  
 
Great Posting…
 Keep doing it…
 Thanks
I love your blogposts. Came in very handy for me during my (ongoing) trip to Bali.
Great!
 
 
 
Hey there! I'm 
, an American who has been traveling the world full time for 8 years now. 
 
 My wife Intan and I are usually in our second home 
, but our journeys take us to 
 all over the world. 
 
 Please tag along!
Subscribe to my newsletter for the latest blog posts, tips, & travel guides. Let's stay updated!
© The World Travel Guy 2024 
 
 
 • 
 • 
 
 
 Some of the pages on my travel blog contain affiliate links. Whenever you buy something through one of these links, I get a small commission 
. As an affiliate, I only recommend products and services that I feel are high quality and helpful to my readers. Thanks for your support.
