The little island of Santorini Greece is famous for its photogenic old white-and-blue buildings, beautiful high end hotels with infinity pools, and sweeping views of the ocean.
Santorini island is almost synonymous with luxury nowadays, but it’s also possible to travel Santorini on a budget, and many of the best things to do in Santorini are free, such as strolling the historic towns, taking pictures, relaxing on the beach, and seeing the sunset.
A trip to the Greek islands wouldn’t be complete without seeing Santorini for at least a few days, and it’s easier than ever to get there from Athens and other major cities in Europe.
This Santorini travel guide will explain how to get there, where to stay, which transport options and tour packages to use, and some of the best things to do in Santorini Greece. I’ve also included a handy Santorini island map for your trip planning!
First of all, if you only have a short stay in Santorini, such as a few days or less, then a day tour can be a great way to see the island.
We recommend GetYourGuide for Santorini tours! They have high rated 
 or 
 that go to a bunch of the best sights like Oia, Pyrgos, and Perissa.
You can also 
 to take pictures of you in a flowing dress, with the Santorini buildings and seascape in the background, like you always see on Instagram.
We’ve used this company for lots of day tours and activities around the world, and they’re great! Highly recommended.
 
Santorini is an island located in the Aegean Sea, southeast of mainland Greece. The distance from Athens to Santorini is about 230 kilometers (140 miles) as the plane flies.
Although it’s just one of about 30 main islands that make up the Cyclades group of Greek islands, Santorini is easily the most famous island in the group, and it’s probably the most famous island in the country of Greece!
Santorini had a volcanic origin, and there are still some natural hot springs and other traces of volcanic activity around the caldera, which can be interesting to see.
Walking around Oia town — one of the best things to do in Santorini Greece!
Santorini island can be reached by flight or ferry.
 is the easiest, fastest, and most expensive (but recommended) way to get there. The Santorini airport (JTR) is served by daily nonstop flights from Athens, as well as some international cities like Frankfurt, London, and Rome.
The flight time to Santorini from Athens is 45 minutes, and it costs anywhere from 50 to 100 Euros for a one way ticket with Aegean/Olympic Air or Sky Express. 
The best airline to use is Aegean (or its subsidiary Olympic Air) instead of Sky Express if you have a choice, but any of them are fine. Free checked baggage is usually included in the ticket prices.
Santorini Travel Guide
Taking the ferry to Santorini from Athens is a bit cheaper than flying, but it’s more complicated and quite a bit slower.
You first have to go to the harbor at Piraeus or Rafina, and then hop on the ferry there. Cost is between 50 and 90 Euros depending on what you select. The boat ride to Santorini takes around 5 hours with the fast ferries, or more than 8 hours with the slow ferries.
If you’re interested in doing some island hopping in Greece and you want to see more than just Santorini, you can also mix up the itinerary a bit. 
For example, you can fly into Santorini for a few days, take the ferry to Mykonos, and then fly from Mykonos back to Athens. That can be a great option!
       
  
  
The towns in Santorini (such as Oia and Fira) are small enough to be walkable by foot for restaurants and most other things, but if you want to do some exploring outside of town you’ll need transport.
The bus can be a great way to get around in Santorini on a budget, and there are stations in all of the important places on the island, with the main hub being Fira. The bus in Santorini is cheap and especially easy to use in the summer months when Greece is busy with tourists. During the low season months, there aren’t as many connections so it may not always be ideal.
For short distance trips near town, there’s no Uber but you can hire a taxi. We used 
 for our airport transfers in Santorini, and had a great experience. They have clean cars and safe drivers who will bring you from the airport to your hotel, and vice versa.
Another good way to get around on Santorini island is by renting a car or ATV (4 wheeler). There are many companies offering car rentals on the island, but we recommend 
!
Fira views — one of the best things to do in Santorini Greece
Driving in Santorini is a little stressful, but not too hard, and most of the roads are in good condition. One of the main difficulties is finding parking. It’s pretty scarce since Santorini is a small island.
The other challenge is driving in the towns, where there’s more traffic and the roads are narrow, with lots of cars parked on both sides. Drive slowly in town and stay alert. Once you get out of town, the roads are smooth sailing for the most part.
Greeks drive on the right side of the road, similar to the US and Canada. The locals like to drive fast, and they frequently ignore speed limits and pass on double yellow lines. Just be aware of this, and move over to let them pass.
  
 
       
  
  
 Since the law was changed in 2021, foreign tourists from Australia, Canada, UK and the United States do not need an International Driving Permit (IDP) to drive in Greece anymore.
  
 The actual text of the new law (in Greek language) can be found in 
, and it’s also been 
.
  
 With that said, it still doesn’t hurt to have an IDP for Santorini in case there’s confusion from the authorities or your local car rental company. Many people in Greece still seem to be unaware of this change.
       
  
 On our first visit to Santorini we used the bus for most of our travels on the island, and only 
 for a couple days to get to some of the more remote places that are harder to reach by bus. That worked great.
  
 If you don’t feel like driving in Santorini, and don’t want to mess with the bus schedule either, then it’s also possible to see the island with a 
 or 
.
  
  
 
Oia village (pronounced ‘ee-yuh’) has some of the most beautiful views and accommodation in Santorini, with historic churches, colorful flowers, and epic ocean views. 
This is the place you always see in the famous postcard photos of Santorini Greece. There are a lot of things to see and do in Oia, and it probably has more photo spots than any other area of Santorini. 
The main photo spot you can’t miss is the iconic view at 
, where you can see pretty much the whole town of Oia, with its whitewashed windmills and tightly packed buildings. 
This is a very popular sunset spot, but we also liked it during the day when it’s less crowded.
The iconic view from Oia Castle in Santorini Greece
Another good photo spot in Oia is the view overlooking the iconic three blue domes of Santorini. 
You can take some amazing pictures of these churches from either side, although you’ll have to wait in line a bit since it’s so popular. Remember to give photographers priority since their clients are paying to get special pictures.
When you get done exploring Oia town, walk down to Ammoudi Bay to see the fish tavernas and the Mediterranean Sea up close.
       
  
  
Fira is the capital of Santorini Greece, and it’s also one of the main tourist areas on the island. 
Like Oia, it has stunning views of the caldera, and lots of luxury accommodation and scenic restaurants to go with it. One of the main photo spots in Fira is the view overlooking the iconic 
. 
However, our favorite spot in town was above the 
. It’s a wonderful old building with an equally amazing background.
       
  
 If you enjoy museums, Fira has two of them to check out — the 
 and the 
.
Fira is the main bus hub of Santorini Greece, so it’s very easy to reach from anywhere on the island. You can even walk or hike from Fira to Imerovigli (or vice versa) in less than 30 minutes.
  
The village of Imerovigli is beautiful and underrated. In some ways, it has the best of both worlds in Santorini! It’s arguably just as nice as Oia or Fira, but it’s also less crowded with tourists.
If you enjoy hiking, you can do the short trek out to 
, which has great views of Imerovigli and the ruins of a Venetian Castle built in 1207 by Marco Sanudo, who was then ruler of all the Cyclades islands. Go a bit further to see the 
.
From Imerovigli, you can even walk or hike to Fira (or vice versa) in less than 30 minutes, so it’s easy to visit Fira and access the main bus station there even if you’re staying in Imerovigli.
       
Panagia Theoskepasti Chapel
Perissa is a laid back area in Santorini with a black sand beach that stretches more than 3 kilometers (2 miles) long, plus it has lots of hotels and restaurants near the beachfront. 
Together with the Kamari area, Perissa is known for being one of the most affordable areas of Santorini. This is a great place to eat cheap Greek food and shop for souvenirs. We had some amazingly inexpensive gyros here!
The beach at Perissa was also one of our favorites on the island of Santorini. For sightseeing, you can take some pictures of the 
 near the bus station.
Early morning at Perissa Beach
If you’re interested in hiking in Santorini, you can climb up to the monastery on the side of the mountain near Perissa (
). 
It’s also possible to reach the ruins of 
 by this route, although you’ll be going all the way to the top of the mountain, so remember to bring a hat and water!
There is accommodation for every budget in the Perissa area. Even though it has some of the cheapest hotels in Santorini island, there are also luxury options as well.
Church of the Holy Cross in Perissa, Santorini
These are some other things to do in Santorini island that may not fit into a short trip of only a few days, but if you stay a week or longer then they’d definitely be worthwhile!
  
The quiet little village of Megalochori is one of the most underrated places to visit in Santorini, with quaint narrow streets, Greek cafes, and some great photo ops, including a white bell tower with 6 bells.
We would have loved to spend more time in Megalochori! It’s still a hidden gem, and it doesn’t have the crowds or bustle of Oia. There are plenty of hotels and restaurants if you decide to stay longer.
You can get to Megalochori easily from the main bus station in Fira, and it’s also possible to drive there. We found plenty of parking space near the town.
       
  
The village of Pyrgos is the former capital of Santorini Greece, and it’s still well worth a visit today. It sits on a foothill of Prophet Elias Mountain, so it’s great to visit on your way up to the mountain!
The main thing people come to see in Pyrgos is the medieval castle, but the cafes and restaurants are also worthwhile, and it’s fun to walk through the charming narrow streets and shop for Greek souvenirs.
We didn’t think Pyrgos was quite as beautiful as Megalochori, but we still really enjoyed it, and it’s easy to reach from Fira by bus, car, or ATV.
       
Souvenirs for sale in Pyrgos village
The highest peak in Santorini is Mount Prophet Elias, with an elevation of 565 meters (1,900 feet) above sea level. There’s a nice 18th century monastery at the top of the mountain that’s open to the public, and it’s free to enter.
Aside from having wonderful panoramic views of Santorini island from above, this mountain is also a great place to watch the sunrise or sunset without the crowds of Oia. You can see everything up here, including the planes taking off and landing at the airport. It’s one of the best things to do in Santorini!
The mountain is accessed by driving your vehicle up a winding road for about 10 minutes past Pyrgos. Parking is limited at the top, so come a little early and remember to bring a jacket, as it can be very windy up there!
Mount Prophet Elias — one of the best things to do in Santorini
This is a 19th century lighthouse on the southwest tip of Santorini island. Even though it’s slightly off the beaten path compared to other attractions in Santorini, you can still get there easily with a 
, and there’s plenty of parking.
The Akrotiri Lighthouse was built by a French company in 1892, so it’s actually one of the oldest lighthouses in Greece! Normally you can’t go inside the building, but the views outside are nice and it’s a fun place to watch the boats go by.
It’s also an especially popular spot to watch the sunset, but remember to hold onto your hat because it can get very windy here sometimes!
Akrotiri Lighthouse
The Akrotiri Museum covers an archaeological site and ancient city in Santorini that was buried in volcanic ash during the 17th century BC. 
There are well preserved houses, pots, and other artworks to see, and you can learn some interesting facts about the old settlement here. 
If you love history, this is a great place to visit in Santorini. It’s located near the Red Beach, so you can easily combine the two places in one trip!
Akrotiri Museum
Most of the beaches in Santorini are black sand beaches because of the volcanic origin of the island. They’re still nice for relaxing and sunbathing, but don’t expect any dazzling white beaches like you might see on 
 or other Greek islands. Santorini doesn’t have white sand beaches.
One of the most famous and photogenic beaches in Santorini is the red beach, which gets its striking color from volcanic rocks on the seashore. Even if you’re not a beach person, this one is well worth a visit to see the unique red color!
If you’re looking for beaches with accommodation (restaurants and places to stay by the beachfront), then the Perissa and Kamari areas are your best choices. They have nice black sand beaches with hundreds of choices of hotels and restaurants!
The unique red beach in Santorini Greece
Here’s a Santorini island map showing some of the best places to visit. 
You can click the icons on this map to get more info and directions for each point of interest, but keep in mind some of the locations may be approximate.
  
The main place to see the sunset in Santorini is at Oia, where hundreds of tourists gather at the Castle of Oia every evening to watch the sunset. It’s hard to move in the crowds, so you’ll want to get there very early if you plan to do sunset photography. For a less crowded sunset spot in Oia, you can also go to the iconic three blue domes.
Another great sunset spot in Santorini is Prophet Elias Mountain. We went up there one evening and it was very peaceful. It only takes about 10 minutes to drive to the top of this mountain from the nearby town of Pyrgos. From the top, you can see the entire island of Santorini!
For sunrise, the options in Santorini are a bit more limited, but you can see the sunrise at Perissa or Kamari Beach, the 
, or Prophet Elias Mountain.
Last, but not least, there are lots of different sunset tour packages in Santorini that include free hotel pickup and drop-off. You can do a sunset cruise on a catamaran, go kayaking or horseback riding in the sunset, or see the iconic Oia castle sunset.
 
Santorini souvenir magnets for sale in Oia town
Fira views — Santorini Island Greece
Yes, Santorini is a very safe place to visit, even outside of the resort areas. We spent weeks exploring every corner of the island, and never felt unsafe at all.
Greece has one of the lowest homicide rates in the world. Just take normal precautions and you shouldn’t have any issues with crime. You don’t need to feel worried at all.
We traveled to Santorini as a couple, but based on our experience I would gladly come back as a solo traveler, with no worries in the least.
  
Believe it or not, Santorini isn’t only for the super rich — even though many Americans have that image of it! It’s certainly possible to do Santorini on a budget, although you won’t be staying in a luxury hotel with an infinity pool or ocean views.
On our first visit to Santorini, we stayed in Perissa near the beach, and used the public bus to cheaply visit other areas like Oia, Fira, and Imerovigli.
We weren’t staying in the fanciest areas of Santorini, but we could reach them easily for sightseeing and photos, which was good enough for us. We rented a car for a couple days to get to some of the more remote places that are harder to reach by bus.
We got wonderful meals in Perissa for as low as 3 Euros per person, and our hotel (
) was 65 Euros per day. That’s still not exactly super cheap, but it’s not bad at all either.
Keep in mind, this was one of the popular summer months (September), and it was a year that happened to be unusually busy for tourism in Greece (2022). So you could conceivably do everything even cheaper than we did.
Overall, I’d say it’s certainly possible to travel Santorini on a budget if you plan it right!
       
  
  
Santorini is one of those places where you feel like you could stay forever. Relaxing in a pool, soaking up sun, being by the ocean, and eating Greek food never gets old.
As far as sightseeing goes, you can see the highlights of Santorini Greece — namely Oia, Fira, Imerovigli, and Perissa — in 3 or 4 days. If you want to travel at a more relaxed pace and also visit extra places like Pyrgos and Megalochori, then a week or more is good.
We spent almost two weeks in Santorini, and while that’s probably more than most people will need, it gave us plenty of time to relax by the pool and see almost everything on the island at a very relaxed pace.
The photogenic Greek monastery in Perissa
Here’s what a sample 3-day itinerary for Santorini island could look like, assuming you want to spend the time mainly for sightseeing:
I hope this gives you some ideas for your own trip to Santorini! Of course, you could easily spend longer exploring these places. 
If you have 4 or 5 days in Santorini, then spend a full day each on Fira and Imerovigli rather than doing both places in the same day. 
You could also spend a full day seeing Pyrgos and Megalochori, plus far-flung sights like the 
 and 
.
       
  
  
The best time to visit Santorini island depends on what you’re looking for.
The nicest weather in Santorini is generally from late April to early November. All of these months are mostly warm and sunny, with less rain than winter. The shoulder months in spring and autumn can be ideal if you’re wanting nice weather without the crowds.
The hottest months in Greece are July and August, with high temperatures of about 85 °F (29 °C) and lows around 73 °F (23 °C). This can be great for swimming in a pool or lounging at the beach, although these two months can also be more crowded with tourists.
Winter in Santorini is fairly mild. It’s wetter and cooler, but it’s never actually too cold to visit. High temperatures are around 60 °F (15 °C), and lows are around 50 °F (10 °C). Perfect jacuzzi weather! The winter season is also quieter and cheaper, so you can often get a good deal on hotels and things.
Regardless of when you decide to visit Santorini, you’re sure to have a memorable trip!
  
 
Thanks for looking! I hope you enjoyed this travel guide for Santorini island in Greece.
We have more travel guides for the Greek islands coming soon, so don’t forget to check back later!
Happy travels!
 
 
 
Hey there! I'm 
, an American who has been traveling the world full time for 8 years now. 
 
 My wife Intan and I are usually in our second home 
, but our journeys take us to 
 all over the world. 
 
 Please tag along!
Subscribe to my newsletter for the latest blog posts, tips, & travel guides. Let's stay updated!
© The World Travel Guy 2024 
 
 
 • 
 • 
 
 
 Some of the pages on my travel blog contain affiliate links. Whenever you buy something through one of these links, I get a small commission 
. As an affiliate, I only recommend products and services that I feel are high quality and helpful to my readers. Thanks for your support.
Navagio Beach is a beautiful secluded beach on 
, with a photogenic shipwreck that’s surrounded by turquoise water and dramatic, winding cliffs.
You’ve no doubt seen this ‘shipwreck beach’ before, because it’s probably one of the most famous travel pictures in the world! Word has gone out, and the beach is now crowded with tourists wanting to see the rusty old shipwreck up close.
The best pictures of Navagio shipwreck are actually taken from the steep cliffs above, rather than on the beach itself, but it’s also fun to get in a boat and go see the beach at eye level, if you’re willing to brave the crowds.
This travel guide will explain how to get to the best Navagio viewpoint for photos, how to visit the beach by boat and see it up close, which tour packages to use in 
, and everything else you need to know before you go!
Before we dive into more detail about Greece’s famous shipwreck beach, let’s talk about tour packages.
The coastline of 
 is full of sea caves, beaches, and other wonderful sights that can only be seen with a boat tour.
We recommend GetYourGuide for boat tours in Zakynthos! They have high rated tours for all of the best sights like Navagio Beach, Blue Caves, Turtle Island, and more. These tours usually include free hotel pickup and drop-off from most of the popular areas in Zakynthos.
We’ve used this company for lots of day tours and activities around the world, and they’re great! Highly recommended.
 
Navagio Beach is located on the northwest corner of 
.
Zakynthos island is easy to reach from Athens, and there are daily flights and ferries for reasonable prices. The distance is only about 240 kilometers (150 miles) as the plane flies.
If you’re looking for more information about how to get to Zakynthos island, you can find that in my complete 
.
Shipwreck Beach Greece viewpoint
If you’re mainly wanting to see the iconic postcard view and take photos of it, you can do that from the Navagio viewpoint, on the cliffs high above the beach. This is where all the great pictures of Navagio are taken, rather than on the beach itself.
You can drive to the Navagio viewpoint yourself with a car or ATV, or 
 that includes transport to the viewpoint along with several other sights in Zakynthos.
It’s a tame 45 minute drive to the viewpoint from the main town in Zakynthos, and the paved road is mostly in good condition, although it turns into rough gravel at the very end when you reach the parking lot. 
If you’re driving, you can plug 
 into your map to take you directly to the Navagio viewpoint.
Shipwreck beach from above
The Greek shipwreck beach
Unfortunately there are very long lines to take pictures at the Navagio viewpoint, so you may have to wait in line for up to an hour during the summer months.
That’s largely because since 2022, only one small platform on the cliffs is open due to the authorities being worried about rockslides at the cliff. Lines are shorter in the morning, but you’ll still have to wait.
The new viewing platform is surrounded by metal railings. You can barely see the shipwreck, and you need a wide angle camera lens to take any decent pictures of the scenery because the platform is so close to it. With a normal lens, forget about it.
Overall, it’s a silly setup and I hope they come up with a better safety solution soon. It’s very frustrating to have such a beautiful view blocked by tall fences on almost all sides.
The sun and heat makes it even worse! Bring a hat and maybe an umbrella. You’ll want cold drinks too. There are canteen trucks in the parking area selling snacks, drinks, and souvenirs, but the prices are inflated, as you’d expect.
Be prepared to wait at the viewpoint. This was only half of the line!
This wide angle picture was taken from the main viewing platform at Navagio
However, there is some good news! You can still get the iconic photos at Navagio if you’re patient and know where to go.
If you visit the Navagio viewpoint in the late afternoon, the security guards eventually leave and you can take pictures all along the cliff, without people or fences blocking the view. Just be very careful and don’t go too close to the edge. Your safety is in your own hands here.
After the security guards leave, you can walk through the fence and along the cliff to the end, until you reach a Greek flag about 400 meters from the main parking area. It’s almost like a short hike, because the ground is very rocky and uneven, and there’s no shade at all from the hot sun.
This whole cliff at Navagio used to be open to the public, but it was closed after a couple of tourists fell to their deaths over the years (allegedly taking selfies near the edge), and at least one of the families tried to bring a lawsuit.
Another view of Navagio Bay
It’s an amazing view of Navagio, and we were joined by dozens of other people relieved to see it without fences. If you walk far enough, you can even see a second beach at the bottom of the bright white cliffs.
The water is incredibly blue. The pictures on this page are not photoshopped! Believe it or not, I didn’t add any saturation at all. In fact, I had to remove a bit of color from the water on some of the pictures because it almost looked fake!
Since the viewpoint is located on the west side of Zakynthos, it’s a great place to watch the sunset, and you can use a wide panoramic photo to capture the beach together with the sunset.
Keep in mind, it’s not possible to reach Navagio Beach from the viewpoint. There’s no path to go down to the beach, because the 200 meter cliffs are too steep. The only way to walk on the beach is with a boat tour, and that’s explained later in more detail.
However, the viewpoint is still one of the best sights in Zakynthos, so you should definitely add it to your itinerary!
Drone pic of shipwreck beach from above
Even though the best pictures of Navagio shipwreck are actually taken from the steep cliffs above, it’s also fun to get in a boat and go see the beach at eye level, if you’re willing to brave the crowds.
Boat tours to Navagio Beach generally depart from the nearby harbor at Porto Vromi. You can show up there and try to arrange a boat rental on the spot, but it’s generally better to 
.
Navagio tours usually give you about 1 hour at the beach, which is plenty of time to disembark, see the shipwreck, and take pictures of it from all angles. Even though Navagio looks like a white sand beach in pictures, it’s actually covered with small white pebbles.
Up close view of the Navagio shipwreck
The shipwrecked boat, called 
, is starting to rust away now after sitting in the elements here for more than 40 years. The graffiti left on it by visitors has also given it some extra personality.
Shipwreck Beach gets very crowded and chaotic during the daytime, when it’s bombarded with tourists and tour boats. During the summer, the only time you can avoid the crowds at Navagio Beach is by arriving before 8 AM or after 6 PM.
Nevertheless, it’s still a very nice beach and the rusty shipwreck is fun to see up close!
The back side of MV Panagiotis
‘Navagio’ Beach gets its name from the Greek word for shipwreck.
The story dates back to October 2, 1980, when the coaster 
 was bound for Italy with a smuggled cargo of cigarettes from Turkey worth more than $200,000 USD.
The plan was to sell the contraband cigarettes in Italy, but at some point in the journey, the Greek captain demanded a bigger share of the profits, which led to a dispute and two of the Italian crew members being taken hostage at gunpoint.
If you’re interested, you can read the complete story in Greek 
. It’s a fascinating story, and most of the details weren’t fully known to the public until very recently.
Navagio is one of my favorite travel pictures anywhere in the world!
Long story short, before the captain could pull off his plan, the boat had engine trouble and ran into a bad storm while passing through Greek waters, causing it to be shipwrecked on the beach in Zakynthos. What a perfect place to land, right?
Most of the boat’s valuable cargo was spoiled or looted after the shipwreck, and the skeleton of the boat has been sitting on Navagio Beach ever since then, slowly being broken down by time and the elements.
Over the years, Navagio Beach became well known for its natural beauty and the interesting story behind it. It’s also been featured in movies, such as the 2016 Korean drama ‘Descendants of the Sun.’ 
Today, the shipwreck at Navagio Beach is probably one of the most famous travel photographs in the world, and it almost singlehandedly made Zakynthos island one of the most popular tourist destinations in Greece!
The Zakynthos shipwreck
There’s no entrance fee at either the beach or the viewpoint. Parking is also free.
This attraction is completely free to visit, aside from the cost of hiring a tour or transport to get there.
  
In general, the Navagio viewpoint and beach are always open when weather permits. You can visit at any hour, day, or month. If you visit in the winter, you may need to book a 
 since there are less boats running in the low season months.
However, Navagio Beach can sometimes be closed temporarily to visitors if there was a recent rockslide at the cliffs. This has happened in the past, but the closures were pretty brief and then everything reopened as normal a short time later.
Unfortunately, they had to close Navagio Beach (not the viewpoint) for the summer of 2023 because the authorities were worried about the risk of landslides. Hopefully in 2024 the beach will stay open with some reasonable safety rules.
Navagio Bay
Yes, it’s possible to fly a drone at Navagio, although it’s a good idea to ask before you fly.
We asked the security guards if we could fly at the viewpoint, and they said it was okay. You’re also allowed to fly at the beach, but that’s not a smart place to do it since it’s so crowded.
The locals in Greece aren’t strict about drones. EU regulations on drones aren’t really enforced here, and there are lots of quiet places to fly without disturbing anyone.
The entire west coast of Zakynthos island is lined with steep limestone cliffs, so you can get some amazing drone photos!
Top down view of the shipwreck bay
Drone view of Navagio point
Yes, in my opinion Navagio is totally worth it!
I will admit it was a bit annoying at first queueing for photos at the Navagio viewpoint, and I hope they come up with a better solution, but in the meantime it’s still possible to get the iconic pictures without queues if you go late in the afternoon.
The beach, on the other hand, was a bit of a mixed bag for me because of the crazy crowds. The sheer number of people at Navagio Beach was shocking and made it very hard to take pictures or enjoy where you are. I brought my parents, who are seniors, and they were pretty overwhelmed. My dad even joked that it felt like ‘D-Day’ with all the boats and chaos.
Still, it’s neat to see the shipwreck up close, and we got to visit a bunch of other amazing places on our Zakynthos boat tour, so the excursion didn’t feel like a waste at all.
Sunset at Navagio viewpoint
There are lots of other great things to see near the Navagio Beach and viewpoint.
One of the best things to see near the viewpoint is the Monastery of Agios Georgios Krimnon. This is a small 16th century monastery just a 5 minute drive from the viewpoint. 
There’s a walking path behind it that takes you to a cross with wonderful views of the Ionian Sea, and it’s also a great sunset spot.
Sunset at the cross behind the monastery
When you visit Navagio Beach by boat, don’t forget to visit some of the sea caves in the area! 
One of these, called the Hidden Treasure Cave, is especially nice, with a high ceiling at the top that pours in sunlight and makes the whole cave amazingly beautiful and photogenic. It’s located near the shipwreck beach, and you can only get there by boat. 
The cave is only big enough for one small boat to fit inside it at a time, and only 
 go to this spot. Shared tours skip it.
For more ideas of things to see in Zakynthos island, check out my complete 
!
Hidden Treasure Cave is another nice spot to see near the shipwreck beach
Here are some packing suggestions for your trip to Zakynthos Greece.
Most of the items below can probably be found on the island in a pinch, but the quality of stuff you buy on the street won’t be guaranteed (personally, I’m not about to use a junky knockoff bag from a street vendor to protect my expensive camera gear).
It’s best to buy vetted products online!
 
 
Thanks for looking! I hope you enjoyed this travel guide for Navagio Beach Greece. This shipwreck bay was one of our favorite sights in Zakynthos island.
Don’t forget to check out my complete 
 for more tips, info, and photos!
Thank you for sharing your experience. I hope I get a chance to take a vacation at Navagio Beach because I have heard a lot about how wonderful the place is.
 
 
 
Hey there! I'm 
, an American who has been traveling the world full time for 8 years now. 
 
 My wife Intan and I are usually in our second home 
, but our journeys take us to 
 all over the world. 
 
 Please tag along!
Subscribe to my newsletter for the latest blog posts, tips, & travel guides. Let's stay updated!
© The World Travel Guy 2024 
 
 
 • 
 • 
 
 
 Some of the pages on my travel blog contain affiliate links. Whenever you buy something through one of these links, I get a small commission 
. As an affiliate, I only recommend products and services that I feel are high quality and helpful to my readers. Thanks for your support.
The island of Kefalonia Greece (also spelled Cephalonia) is amazingly scenic, and it’s still not as crowded as other Greek islands like Zakynthos or 
.
You can visit Kefalonia on a day trip from 
 and see some of the top sights in one full day, but in my opinion it’s better to stay at least a few days on the island and spend more time sightseeing.
The most famous thing to see in Kefalonia island is the Melissani lake and cave, but the island also has loads of good beaches with soft white pebbles and turquoise water.
This travel blog will explain some of the best things to do in Kefalonia Greece, how to get there, where to stay, and the best transport options and tour packages. I’ve also included a handy Kefalonia island map for trip planning!
First of all, if you only have a short stay in Kefalonia, such as a few days or less, then a day tour can be a great way to see the island.
We recommend GetYourGuide for Kefalonia tours! They have high rated 
 that go to a bunch of the best sights like Melissani Cave, Antisamos Beach, and Myrtos Viewpoint. 
If you’re a solo traveler on a budget, they also have 
 by bus. These tours usually include free hotel pickup and drop-off from most of the popular areas in Kefalonia.
We’ve used this company for lots of day tours and activities around the world, and they’re great! Highly recommended.
 
Kefalonia (also spelled Cephalonia) is an island located in the Ionian Sea, west of mainland Greece. 
There are a total of seven Ionian Islands in Greece, and the distance from Athens to Kefalonia is only about 260 kilometers (160 miles) in a straight line.
Fteri Beach — one of the best things to do in Kefalonia Greece!
Kefalonia island can be reached by flight or ferry.
 is the easiest, fastest, and most expensive (but recommended) way to get there. The Kefalonia airport (EFL) is served by daily nonstop flights from Athens, as well as some international cities like Amsterdam, London, and Munich.
The flight time to Kefalonia from Athens is 1 hour, and it costs anywhere from 50 to 100 Euros for a one way ticket with Aegean/Olympic Air or Sky Express. 
The best airline to use is Aegean (or its subsidiary Olympic Air) instead of Sky Express if you have a choice, but any of them are fine. Free checked baggage is usually included in the ticket prices.
Drone view of Assos village
Taking the ferry to Kefalonia from Athens is cheaper than flying, but it’s slower and a bit more complicated. 
You first have to take a 4 hour bus ride from Athens to Kyllini (which costs 25 Euros), and then hop on the ferry there. The boat ride from Kyllini to Kefalonia takes around 1.5 hours and costs about 14 Euros.
There are also ferries running from nearby islands like 
 and Ithaca, so if you’re interested in doing some island hopping in Greece and you want to see more than just Kefalonia, you can mix up the itinerary a bit. 
For example, you can fly into Kefalonia for a few days, 
, and then fly from Zakynthos back to Athens. Or do the same thing in the opposite direction. That’s what we did, and it worked out great!
There are even 
 if you’re short on time and want to see some of the highlights of the island.
Myrtos Viewpoint — one of the best things to do in Kefalonia Greece!
Kefalonia is a pretty good sized island (almost twice as big as 
), and driving from one side to the other can take hours. If you want to do the island justice, then you’ll need transport.
For short distance trips near town, there’s no Uber but you can hire a taxi. We used 
 for our airport transfers in Greece, and had a great experience. They have clean cars and safe drivers who will bring you from the airport to your hotel, and vice versa.
The main way to get around on Kefalonia island is by renting a car. There are many companies offering car rentals on the island, but we recommend 
!
Driving in Kefalonia is a little stressful, but not too hard, and most of the roads are in good condition. We found it to be a bit easier than Zakynthos. It’s a more mountainous island, so you’ll occasionally have steep roads, but these are well paved.
Another view of Assos village
A few remote roads in Cephalonia may still be gravel with occasional potholes, but even those roads are quickly improving as the island becomes more accessible and popular with travelers.
The main difficulty is driving in Argostoli town, where there’s more traffic and the roads are narrow, with lots of cars parked on both sides. Drive slowly in town and stay alert. Once you get out of town, the roads are smooth sailing for the most part.
Greeks drive on the right side of the road, similar to the US and Canada. The locals like to drive fast, and they frequently ignore speed limits and pass on double yellow lines. Just be aware of this, and move over to let them pass.
Petani Beach — blue water and white pebbles
Since the law was changed in 2021, foreign tourists from Australia, Canada, UK and the United States do not need an International Driving Permit (IDP) to drive in Greece anymore.
The actual text of the new law (in Greek language) can be found in 
, and it’s also been 
.
With that said, it still doesn’t hurt to have an IDP for Kefalonia in case there’s confusion from the authorities or your local car rental company. Many people in Greece still seem to be unaware of this change.
If you don’t feel like driving in Kefalonia, it’s also possible to see the island with a 
 or 
.
  
 
 
 is a spectacular underground lake and cave in Kefalonia with an open ceiling that lights up its stunning blue water.
You can go into this cave and take a short paddleboat tour around the lake, and it’s easily one of the best things to do in Kefalonia! If you visit Melissani cave at the right time of day, the ceiling lets in just enough light to make the water color go crazy, turning a transparent bright blue.
I would almost say this is a 
 item that every world traveler needs to see, although the boat ride is a bit short and the lake is really dependent on the right lighting in order to look its best.
Because of its beauty, Melissani has become one of the most popular places to visit in Kefalonia, so you’ll usually have to queue to see it. During the high season months, the line can take anywhere from 10 to 40 minutes.
Mid-day is the best time to see the cave because that’s when the sun is highest in the sky, lighting up the colors of the lake. Unfortunately, that’s also the busiest time to visit, so be prepared to wait.
Even though the boat ride is short (about 10 minutes), it’s loaded with good photo opportunities! If you’re lucky, you can sometimes see eels swimming around in the lake too. It’s a great little adventure.
Rowboats on the stunning 
Antisamos is a beautiful beach with clear water and soft waves, and it’s surrounded by green hills on all sides. The water at this beach is clear as glass and great for swimming.
It used to be a quiet, hidden beach, but nowadays it’s quite commercial and busy. There’s easy access on a paved road from the harbor town of Sami, and the beach has restaurants with lots of umbrellas, bathrooms, and parking.
Because of the proximity to Sami, this beach is easy to combine with a visit to the nearby Melissani Lake and Drogarati Cave.
Overall, it’s a great beach to bring the family for swimming and relaxing!
Relaxing at Antisamos Beach
Myrtos is one of the most spectacular locations in Kefalonia Greece, with a snow white pebble beach surrounded by steep cliffs on both sides, and a viewpoint where you can look down at the beach from above.
Make sure you stop at the roadside viewpoint (located 
) before going down to the beach. It has some of the best scenery in Kefalonia, and you don’t have to pay or do any hiking to see it!
This spot has amazing views of the Kefalonia coastline and the steep road leading down to the beach. Parking is limited, but there’s usually space since cars continually come and go.
Myrtos Viewpoint
Myrtos Beach is accessed by a steep paved road that can be a little unnerving at times, especially since you have to share it with other cars going back up the hill. 
In the high season, it’s best to come here early for parking because Myrtos is very popular. However, the beach is more than 700 meters long so it never feels too crowded at all. Waves can be rough here, so it’s probably not a great spot for kids to swim.
The bright pebbles and cliffs at Myrtos Beach are almost blindingly white, with colorful turquoise water. It’s probably Kefalonia’s most beautiful beach!
Myrtos Beach
Assos is a little seaside village on a peninsula in northern Kefalonia. A visit to this spot is definitely one of the best things to do in Kefalonia Greece!
It’s a quaint and colorful town that’s great for pictures, and we would’ve loved to stay longer. There’s a nice little protected beach where you can go for a swim, and plenty of shops and restaurants by the coast.
Shade trees and benches by the water make it a great place to sit and relax.
Assos village
Assos once served as the administrative capital of northern Cephalonia under Venetian rule, starting in 1593.
If you have extra time, climb the hill to the 
 for a great view of the town from the opposite side. You can reach the castle ruins in about 30-40 minutes from the car park, and it’s free to visit.
Parking at Assos is limited and can fill up in the high season months, so you’ll want to arrive early if possible.
Assos village
Fiskardo is a historic harbor town on the northern tip of Kefalonia island, with a ferry that runs to the nearby Greek islands of Ithaca and Lefkada.
Even if you don’t plan on using the ferry, Fiskardo is a great place to visit to walk around the harbor and enjoy the seaside views. We had a great lunch of Greek gyros in Fiskardo and bought some souvenirs.
I have to say the town of Fiskardo was more crowded than Assos and not quite as photogenic. It’s still worth a visit, but if you have to choose only one of these towns to see then I would pick Assos for sure.
Fiskardo village
The old Venetian lighthouse at Fiskardo village
Fteri is a secluded beach that’s reachable by boat (‘
‘) from the town of Zola.
The boat ride is easy and comfy, and takes less than 10 minutes each way. You can stay at the beach for hours if you like, and the boat captain will give you a WhatsApp number to call when you’re ready to go back to Zola. 
I had my doubts about this setup at first, but it worked really smoothly for us. You don’t have to book anything in advance, and during the high season there are plenty of boats coming and going.
Fteri is a beautiful beach and very photogenic, with a turquoise water color that almost looks unreal. The beach was empty when we arrived, although it started to fill up with people by the time we left.
Fteri Beach
The beach is reachable by boat (‘
‘)
The waves at Fteri are calm so it’s great for swimming, although water shoes help for walking on the hard white pebbles. If you want, you can pay extra to explore some of the other nearby beaches and sea caves by boat.
If you’re on a budget, you can also reach Fteri by hiking for about 30-45 minutes 
, but the path is rough and unmarked so most people use the water taxi instead.
Prices for the water taxis are pretty reasonable, and if you’re a solo traveler you don’t have to rent your own boat, you can join a boat with other people to save costs. Overall, it’s a very fun experience!
Drone view of Fteri Beach
Petani Beach might be tied with Fteri as the most beautiful beach on the island of Kefalonia Greece. This one is located on the western peninsula of the island.
This is an easy access beach with all the facilities: restaurants and bars, showers, and lots of umbrellas. Like the other top beaches in Kefalonia, it can get very busy during the peak season, so it’s a good idea to show up early.
The water at this beach is crystal clear and it’s surrounded by limestone mountains. It’s very nice!
Petani Beach
I would have to say the best photo spot in Kefalonia is probably the Melissani cave and lake. It was my favorite of the many places we saw in Kefalonia Greece.
The viewpoint above Myrtos Beach is also amazing, and Assos village is highly photogenic at any time of day. Kefalonia is a great place for photographers.
For drone pilots, it’s possible to take amazing photos on Kefalonia island. The locals in Greece aren’t strict about drones here, and there are lots of quiet places to fly without disturbing anyone. If in doubt, just ask before you fly.
Myrtos Viewpoint
The island of Cephalonia is loaded with great beaches. It has a much better selection of beaches than nearby 
.
If you’re mainly just looking for the popular beaches with easy access and beachfront accommodation, check out the beaches on the southern coast of the island, such as Kalamia, Xi, Makris Gialos, Skala, and Ragia Beach.
For the really scenic beaches, check out Antisamos, Myrtos, Fteri, and Petani Beach. All of these have colorful turquoise water, white pebble shores, and dramatic limestone mountains.
Myrtos Beach
Snow white pebbles at Myrtos Beach
Here’s a Kefalonia island map you can use to plan your trip in Greece.
You can click the icons on this map to get more info and directions for each point of interest, but keep in mind some of the locations may be approximate.
  
Here are some packing suggestions for your trip to Kefalonia Greece.
Most of the items below can probably be found on the island in a pinch, but the quality of stuff you buy on the street won’t be guaranteed (personally, I’m not about to use a junky knockoff bag from a street vendor to protect my expensive camera gear).
It’s best to buy vetted products online!
White Rocks Beach
Fteri Beach is one of our favorites
Kefalonia views at Myrtos Beach
 
Yes, Kefalonia is a very safe place to visit!
Greece has one of the lowest homicide rates in the world. Just take normal precautions and you shouldn’t have any issues with crime.
Kefalonia island is not so touristy that you might feel resented, and the locals were very friendly in our experience.
Bird crossing at the Monastery of Agios Gerasimos
Yes, I think Kefalonia is worth it. We really enjoyed our time spent on the island, and some of the sights like Melissani Lake and Myrtos Beach are spectacular.
If you’re looking for an island with amazing scenery, beaches, and not too many people, Cephalonia is a great option!
  
Three or four days is enough time to see the highlights of Kefalonia, although a week or two would be more relaxed. 
There are many nice beaches and hidden spots in Kefalonia island, and it’s less expensive than 
, so you could definitely stay longer if you want! We only stayed 4 days, and we felt like we needed more time.
If you only have one day in Kefalonia (i.e. on a day trip from Zakynthos or something), then make sure you go to the Melissani cave. It’s one of the single best sights in Cephalonia Greece!
 — one of the best things to do in Kefalonia Greece!
Fteri beach cliffs
Here’s what a sample 4-day itinerary for Cephalonia island could look like:
I hope this sample itinerary gives you some ideas for your own trip to Cephalonia. As always, feel free to ask any questions if you have them.
Fteri Beach
The best time to visit Kefalonia island depends on what you’re looking for, but generally the nicest weather is from early May to late October. All of these months are mostly warm and sunny. The shoulder months in spring and autumn can be nice if you’re wanting good weather without the crowds.
The hottest months in Greece are July and August, and Kefalonia during this time has temperatures of up to 82 °F (27 °C) during the day time, and lows of 67 °F (19 °C). This can be great for swimming in a pool or lounging at the beach, although these two months can also be a bit more busy with tourists.
Winter in Kefalonia is fairly mild, but it’s wetter, cooler, and more overcast, and there may be some snowfall, especially on the Ainos mountains. High temperatures are around 53 °F (11 °C), and lows are around 43 °F (6 °C). Not as many boats and tours are running at this time, but you may get a good deal on hotels and things.
Regardless of when you decide to visit Cephalonia, you’re sure to have a memorable trip!
A sunny afternoon on Myrtos Beach
Thanks for looking! I hope you enjoyed this travel guide for the best things to do in Kefalonia Greece.
We have more travel guides for the Greek islands coming soon, so don’t forget to check back later!
Happy travels!
Thank you for the great article! Husband and I are planning our honeymoon for September and this was helpful.
Nice! Have a great trip.
 
 
 
Hey there! I'm 
, an American who has been traveling the world full time for 8 years now. 
 
 My wife Intan and I are usually in our second home 
, but our journeys take us to 
 all over the world. 
 
 Please tag along!
Subscribe to my newsletter for the latest blog posts, tips, & travel guides. Let's stay updated!
© The World Travel Guy 2024 
 
 
 • 
 • 
 
 
 Some of the pages on my travel blog contain affiliate links. Whenever you buy something through one of these links, I get a small commission 
. As an affiliate, I only recommend products and services that I feel are high quality and helpful to my readers. Thanks for your support.
The beautiful island of Zakynthos Greece has become famous for its picturesque 
, but there are also many other things to do and see on this scenic island in the Ionian Sea.
Zakynthos features steep limestone cliffs, white pebble beaches, and some of the most colorful blue water you’ll ever see in your life. You can explore the sights on this island by boat or by land, and it’s relatively easy to get to Zakynthos from Athens.
To be fair, the island of Zakynthos has become a very popular and crowded summer tourist destination in Greece nowadays, but it’s still worth a visit for the bucket list sights and photo ops.
This travel blog will explain what to do in Zakynthos, how to get there, where to stay, best transport options and tour packages, and some of the top sights to see. I’ve also included a handy Zakynthos island map for trip planning!
The coastline of Zakynthos is full of sea caves, beaches, and other wonderful sights that can only be seen with a boat tour.
We recommend GetYourGuide for boat tours in Zakynthos! They have high rated tours for all of the best sights like 
, Blue Caves, Turtle Island, and more. These tours usually include free hotel pickup and drop-off from most of the popular areas in Zakynthos.
We’ve used this company for lots of day tours and activities around the world, and they’re great! Highly recommended.
 
Zakynthos (also known as Zante) is an island located in the Ionian Sea, west of mainland Greece. The distance from Athens to Zakynthos is only about 240 kilometers (150 miles) as the plane flies.
There are a total of seven Ionian Islands in Greece, and Zakynthos is the most famous of these, but the other nearby islands like 
 are also very scenic and worth a visit if you have time.
Myzithres Rocks — one of our favorite views of Zakynthos Greece
Zakynthos island can be reached by flight or ferry.
 is the easiest, fastest, and most expensive (but recommended) way to get there. The Zakynthos airport (ZTH) is served by daily nonstop flights from Athens, as well as some international cities like Amsterdam, Rome, and Warsaw.
The flight time to Zakynthos from Athens is 1 hour, and it costs anywhere from 50 to 100 Euros for a one way ticket with Aegean/Olympic Air or Sky Express.
The best airline to use is Aegean (or its subsidiary Olympic Air) instead of Sky Express if you have a choice, but any of them are fine. Free checked baggage is usually included in the ticket prices.
Drone view of 
 point
Taking the ferry to Zakynthos from Athens is cheaper than flying, but it’s slower and a bit more complicated. 
You first have to take a 4 hour bus ride from Athens to Kyllini (which costs 25 Euros), and then hop on the ferry there. The boat ride from Kyllini to Zakynthos takes around 1 hour and costs about 12 Euros.
If you’re interested in doing some island hopping in Greece and you want to see more than just Zakynthos, you can also mix up the itinerary a bit. 
For example, you can fly into Zakynthos for a few days, take the ferry to 
, and then fly from Kefalonia back to Athens. That’s what we did, and it worked out great!
The coastline of Zakynthos Greece is full of surprises
Zakynthos town proper is small enough to be walkable by foot for restaurants and most other things, but if you want to do some exploring outside of town you’ll need transport.
The main way to get around on Zakynthos island is by renting a car or ATV (4 wheeler). There are many companies offering car rentals on the island, but we recommend 
! 
There’s also an affordable bus service offered by 
, although keep in mind some of the bus routes are seasonal (summer only). 
 has a full list of prices and routes on the island.
For short distance trips near town, you can walk to beaches, shops, and such places. There’s no Uber, but you can hire a taxi or 
.
The limestone cliffs of Zakinthos island
Driving in Zakynthos is a little stressful, but not too hard, and most of the roads are in good condition. The west side of the island is more mountainous, so you’ll occasionally have steep roads with plenty of bends, but these are usually well paved.
A few remote roads on the west side of the island may still be gravel with occasional potholes, but even those roads are quickly improving as the island becomes more accessible and popular with travelers.
The main difficulty is driving in Zante town, where there’s more traffic and the roads are narrow, with lots of cars parked on both sides. Drive slowly in town and stay alert. Once you get out of town, the roads are smooth sailing for the most part.
Greeks drive on the right side of the road, similar to the US and Canada. The locals like to drive fast, and they frequently ignore speed limits and pass on double yellow lines. Just be aware of this, and move over to let them pass.
The bluest water in the world!
Since the law was changed in 2021, foreign tourists from Australia, Canada, UK and the United States do not need an International Driving Permit (IDP) to drive in Greece anymore.
The actual text of the new law (in Greek language) can be found in 
, and it’s also been 
.
With that said, it still doesn’t hurt to have an IDP for Zakynthos in case there’s confusion from the authorities or your local car rental company. Many people in Greece still seem to be unaware of this change.
The coastline of Zakynthos is stunningly beautiful, and many of the best sights on the island are worth touring by boat. You can rent a boat or join a shared tour at one of the many harbors on the island, or you can 
 that include free hotel pickup and drop-off.
  
 
 
This famous 
 is what first put Zakynthos island on so many travelers’ bucket lists. It’s probably one of the most famous travel pictures in the world!
Navagio is a beautiful secluded beach surrounded by turquoise water and dramatic, winding cliffs. In the center of the beach sits a smuggler ship that ran aground during stormy weather in 1980.
If you’re mainly wanting to see the iconic postcard view and take photos of it, you can do that from a viewpoint on the cliffs high above the beach.
You can drive to the Navagio viewpoint yourself, or 
 that includes the viewpoint along with several other sights in Zakynthos.
Keep in mind, it’s not possible to reach the beach itself from the viewpoint. There’s no path to go down to the beach, because the cliffs are too steep. The only way to walk on the beach is with a boat tour, and that’s explained below in more detail.
However, the viewpoint is still one of the best sights in Zakynthos, so you should definitely add it to your itinerary!
This is a small monastery that you’ll pass on the way to the Navagio viewpoint. In fact, it’s just a 5 minute drive from the viewpoint!
The Monastery of Agios Georgios Krimnon was founded in the 16th century, and it’s still a functioning monastery, with monks living and working there. Remember to dress appropriately if you want to go inside, although plenty of nice pictures can be taken from outside.
It’s free to visit the monastery, and they have a little workshop where they make mosaics and other art. You can buy their wares if you want, but they aren’t pushy about it. The mosaics are very nice.
Behind the monastery, there’s a walking path that takes you to a cross with wonderful views of the Ionian Sea, and it’s also a great sunset spot.
       
  
  
  
Even though the best pictures of 
 are actually taken from the steep cliffs above, it’s also fun to get in a boat and go see the beach at eye level, if you’re willing to brave the crowds.
Boat tours to Navagio Beach generally depart from the nearby harbor at Porto Vromi. You can show up there and try to arrange a boat rental on the spot, but it’s generally better to 
.
This beach gets very crowded and chaotic during the daytime, when it’s bombarded with tourists and boats. During the summer, the only time you can avoid the crowds at Navagio Beach is by arriving before 8 AM or after 6 PM.
Nevertheless, it’s still a very nice beach and the rusty shipwreck is fun to see up close!
Up close view of the 
The back side of MV Panagiotis
Top down view of the shipwreck bay
Out of all the many wonderful caves in Zakynthos island, this was one of our favorites.
The Maravelia Cave, also known as Hidden Treasure Cave, is located on the coast near the shipwreck beach, and you can only get there by boat. 
In fact, the cave is only big enough for one small boat to fit inside it at a time, and only 
 go to this spot. Shared tours skip it.
       
To go inside the cave, you’ll have to step directly off of your boat and climb up the smooth rocks that meet the water’s edge near the cave entrance. 
The rocks can be slippery from sea water, so watch your step! Hidden Treasure Cave has a high ceiling with an opening at the top that pours in sunlight and makes the whole cave amazingly beautiful and photogenic. 
It may not be famous just yet, but this was one of our favorite hidden spots in Zakinthos!
Hidden Treasure Cave (Maravelia)
This is one of the most spectacular and underrated places in Zakynthos Greece, with dramatic white rocks and private beaches on both sides of the rock.
The Myzithres Rocks are located on the southwest corner of Zakynthos island, and you can view them from the cliffs above, or take a boat directly to them from Keri Harbor and land on the beach!
There’s a viewpoint and a restaurant on the cliffs above, called Keri Lighthouse Restaurant. It’s a little overpriced, although the views are unbeatable. Afternoon until sunset is the best time to dine there and take pictures.
You can also walk further up the road and enjoy the view of Myzithres Rocks without any people, but be careful not to get too close to the edge, because the cliff may be unstable.
Myzithres Rocks
Restaurant views from above the Myzithres Rocks
Also known as ‘turtle island,’ Marathonisi is a small island near the south coast of Zakynthos. Part of the island is a protected breeding ground for loggerhead sea turtles.
The front side of this island has a nice beach with clear water, and the south side has a couple of caves you can enter with a small boat. It’s a fantastic island, but it’s becoming pretty crowded.
You can visit Marathonisi Island on a half day tour from Keri Harbor along with other sights such as the Keri Caves (below), or it’s also possible to take a boat taxi there from nearby places like Laganas Beach.
Aerial view of Marathonisi (also known as Turtle Island)
       
Drone pic of the beach at Marathonisi
The Keri Caves are usually visited on a half day boat tour that includes Marathonisi Island (above) and sometimes the Myzithres Rocks.
Inside these caves, the water seems to glow blue, giving it a gatorade-like color that almost doesn’t look real. It’s hard to capture with a camera. Small boats can float into the caves see them up close.
There are also several pebble beaches and two rock arches on this coastline that your boat captain can drive through if he’s feeling adventurous! 
Overall, the Keri Caves were one of our favorite places in southern Zakynthos.
Inside one of the Keri Caves
       
Drone pic at the Keri Caves
This is a group of small caves on the northern tip of Zakynthos island, reachable by boat from Agios Nikolaos harbor.
As you might guess from the name, these are some of the most colorful caves in Zakynthos, and little boats can pass through the caves and come out the other side. Usually you can do some swimming here too, if there’s enough time.
The Blue Caves tour is generally shorter than any of the other boat tours in Zakynthos, but it’s also cheaper, so it’s well worth it!
Small boats can pass through the Blue Caves
Incredible water color
The Blue Caves from above
This viewpoint is still kind of a hidden gem in Zakynthos, with amazing views of the coastline and that dark blue water the Mediterranean Sea is famous for. 
Calling it a beach is kind of a stretch, but at the bottom of the cliff there’s a nice swimming spot that can be reached with a bit of short, intense hiking. The path is still unfinished rock, and there are some steep sections, so it’s not good for kids or older folks.
When the access improves, I’m sure this place will be one of the highlights of Zakynthos island. It definitely has some of our favorite views.
       
Plakaki Beach — rocky access, but stunning views!
Potamitis is another viewpoint with a nice restaurant, a windmill, and easy access by road. It’s located on the north end of Zakynthos island.
There’s a photogenic winding staircase that takes you down to the seaside, where you can watch the tour boats coming and going from the nearby Blue Caves. It’s a really nice view, and there are also sunbeds if you want to stay and relax.
We had heard that the restaurant asks you to buy something before taking pictures at the viewpoint, but in our case they didn’t ask for anything. The restaurant has good ratings too, so I’m sure it’s worth a visit!
       
Potamitis views
This is a medieval church that sits at the top of Skopos mountain in southeast Zante, at an elevation of 543 meters (1,782 ft). Surrounding the church are the ruins of a monastery that is even older. It’s like a trip back in time.
To reach the church you can drive or hike, but the road is rough gravel all the way to the top of the mountain. We made it there in a rental car, but it wasn’t a very comfortable drive. If you hike, bring a hat and lots of water. 
If you drive, it’s best to come from the northeast side, because apparently the road from Kalamaki is worse and requires a 4×4 vehicle.
Monastery of Panagia Skopiotissa
Above the church
The atmosphere at the monastery is quiet and special. If you come in the daytime, they open the doors to the main building for visitors, and the inside has nice frescoes and a guestbook. 
There’s a good breeze and you have panoramic views of much of Zakynthos island, with Kefalonia visible in the distance. I’m sure it’s a great spot for sunset too, although we didn’t stay that late.
Behind the monastery, there’s a rocky summit you can climb for even better views of the whole area! The path for this climb starts on the southeast side of the rocks, and there’s a rope to help you go up.
All in all, this place is a true hidden gem in Zakinthos, and most people still don’t know about it!
A peaceful walking path at the monastery
There are lots of beaches in Zakynthos, but this one stands out because of its snow white pebbles and nice clear water. It’s similar to some of the scenic beaches in 
.
This is one of the quieter and less touristy beaches in Zakynthos, with no music or sunbeds, although it’s occasionally disrupted by noisy boats dropping off tourists, so that’s the only downside. At the top of the hill, there’s a small canteen selling food and drinks.
The beach itself is fantastic from above or below, and you can reach it in about 5 minutes by hiking down a steep dirt path. Even though it doesn’t have the easiest access, the beach is beautiful and well worth a visit!
Calm waters at Pelagaki Beach
This beach might be one of the most unusual locations in Zakynthos Greece. 
Actually, it’s not really a beach, but more like a little rocky peninsula with a natural arch and some tide pools for swimming.
The path down to the water is rocky and a bit steep in places, so it’s not the greatest. You can go down in about 5 minutes. I wouldn’t recommend it for kids or older folks, but you can enjoy great views of Korakonissi without going all the way to the bottom.
Korakonissi
There are three places to swim: in the tide pool to the right, in the open sea to the left, or inside the cave below the arch. 
It’s a spectacular location, and climbing on the rocks gives you some different views of everything. The water inside the cave is incredibly blue.
Parking is limited here, so you’ll want to arrive early if possible. The road is a bit steep and turns into gravel near the end, so depending on your vehicle, you may need to park before you reach the bottom of the road. 
There is a cafe in the parking lot with nice views and reasonable prices for Greek food. Enjoy!
       
  
 
Inside the natural rock arch at Korakonissi
There are many beautiful photo spots in Zakynthos Greece, but I think the winner would have to be the 
, followed by the Myzithres Rocks in second place. Third place for me might be Plakaki Beach.
If you only have time for two boat tours in Zakynthos, do Navagio and the Keri Caves. These are on opposite sides of the island, so you may need two separate days to do them, but we thought the tour at Keri Caves was even better than the Blue Caves! It’s also a longer tour, so you get more time to enjoy the scenery.
For drone pilots, it’s possible to take amazing photos on the west coast of Zakynthos island, which is all lined with steep limestone cliffs.
The locals in Greece aren’t strict about drones. EU regulations on drones aren’t really enforced here, and there are lots of quiet places to fly without disturbing anyone. If in doubt, just ask before you fly.
There are limitless photo ops along the coast of Zakynthos Greece
To be honest, Zakynthos beaches generally aren’t as nice as the ones on say, 
, and they’re very overrun with tourists during the summer months. For the best experience, you’ll want to arrive early and find a good parking spot before the crowds get there.
If you want sandy beaches in Zakynthos, check out Banana Beach, Porto Zorro, or Alykanas Beach. If you’re mainly wanting spectacular views, go to Porto Limnionas or Plakaki Beach. These aren’t sandy beaches, but the views are wonderful and they can still be great spots for swimming and sunbathing. 
The famous 
 also has amazing views with nice sand and water, although it’s usually crowded with boats and people.
Above Pelagaki Beach
Here’s a Zakynthos island map you can use to plan your trip in Greece.
You can click the icons on this map to get more info and directions for each point of interest, but keep in mind some of the locations may be approximate.
Attractions to visit by land are marked in blue, while harbors (and nearby attractions to reach by sea) are marked in orange.
  
Zakynthos island has a long west-facing coastline, so naturally there are lots of good sunset spots to enjoy.
One of the most popular places to watch the sunset is at the 
 (above the beach), where you can use a wide panoramic photo to capture the beach together with the sunset.
For a more quiet sunset, our favorite spot was the cross at the Monastery of Agios Georgios Krimnon, which is also located near the shipwreck viewpoint. 
To find the cross for sunset, walk along the short path behind the monastery until you’ve gone about 150 meters down the hill. It’s a really nice spot, and you’ll most likely have it all to yourself!
Sunset at the cross behind Agios Georgios Krimnon
Sunset at 
If you want dinner in Zakinthos with an epic sunset view to end the day, check out 
, 
, 
, or the 
.
All of these restaurants and sunset spots are located on the west side of the island, so a bit of driving is required if you’re coming from town. 
There are also some tours available that will take you to one of the good sunset spots in Zakynthos and handle all of the transportation for you.
 
Here are some packing suggestions for your trip to Zakynthos Greece.
Most of the items below can probably be found on the island in a pinch, but the quality of stuff you buy on the street won’t be guaranteed (personally, I’m not about to use a junky knockoff bag from a street vendor to protect my expensive camera gear).
It’s best to buy vetted products online!
Plakaki coastline blues
The perfect place to go for a swim
Yes, Zakynthos is a very safe place to visit!
Greece has one of the lowest homicide rates in the world. Just take normal precautions and you shouldn’t have any issues with crime.
The locals in Zakynthos are very friendly, especially if you get out of the busy town and go to some of the quiet villages in the countryside.
  
If you still can’t make up your mind, then yes, Zakynthos is definitely worth it!
This is a beautiful Greek island with great food, people, and scenery. You can enjoy a sunset dinner by the cliffs, or explore a sea cave by boat. Famous bucket list views like Navagio Beach are also icing on the cake.
In spite of the summer tourist crowds, Zakynthos is undoubtedly one of the quintessential Greek islands in my opinion. It’s also fairly easy to reach from Athens, and the infrastructure is improving every day.
Myzithres Beach
 is one of my favorite travel pictures anywhere in the world!
There are loads of good things to do in Zakynthos Greece. The best highlights will take at least 3 days to see, but one week is more ideal.
We spent two weeks in Zakynthos, and easily could have found more activities to do if we had stayed longer.
  
Here’s what a sample 4-day itinerary for Zakinthos island could look like, assuming you’ve 
:
I hope this sample itinerary gives you some ideas for your own trip to Zakynthos! As always, feel free to ask any questions if you have them.
  
 
The best time to visit Zakinthos island depends on what you’re looking for, but generally the nicest weather is from early May to late October. All of these months are mostly warm and sunny. The shoulder months in spring and autumn can be nice if you’re wanting good weather without the crowds.
The hottest months in Greece are July and August, and Zakynthos during this time has temperatures of up to 91 °F (32 °C) during the day time, and lows of 70 °F (21 °C). This can be great for swimming in a pool or lounging at the beach, although these two months can also be a a lot more busy with tourists.
Winter in Zakynthos is fairly mild, but it’s wetter, cooler, and more overcast. High temperatures are around 57 °F (14 °C), and lows are around 46 °F (8 °C). Not as many boats and tours are running at this time, but you may get a good deal on hotels and things.
Regardless of when you decide to visit Zante, you’re sure to have a memorable trip!
Colorful souvenir plates at a roadside market in Anafonitria village
Thanks for looking! I hope you enjoyed this travel guide for Zakynthos island in Greece.
We have more travel guides for the Greek islands coming soon, so don’t forget to check back later!
Happy travels!
Do you need to rent a car to get around on this island?
Hi. A car isn’t required if you stay near town, but it can still be nice for exploring other parts of the island. We used 
 in Greece and would recommend them. The other option for getting around is to book day tours that include transport. There are 
 that go to many of the best places on the island.
What are the other ways to get around the island if you don’t have a car? Does the island have buses?
Hi. There’s also an affordable bus service offered by 
, although keep in mind some of the bus routes are seasonal (summer only). 
 has a full list of prices and routes on the island.
 
 For short distance trips near town, you can walk to beaches, shops, and such places. There’s no Uber, but you can hire a taxi or 
.
 
 
 
Hey there! I'm 
, an American who has been traveling the world full time for 8 years now. 
 
 My wife Intan and I are usually in our second home 
, but our journeys take us to 
 all over the world. 
 
 Please tag along!
Subscribe to my newsletter for the latest blog posts, tips, & travel guides. Let's stay updated!
© The World Travel Guy 2024 
 
 
 • 
 • 
 
 
 Some of the pages on my travel blog contain affiliate links. Whenever you buy something through one of these links, I get a small commission 
. As an affiliate, I only recommend products and services that I feel are high quality and helpful to my readers. Thanks for your support.
The Melissani cave lake is a spectacular underground lake in 
, with an open ceiling that lights up its stunning blue water.
You can go into this ‘cave of the nymphs,’ as it’s called, and take a short paddleboat tour around the lake. It’s easily one of the best 
 island! 
If you visit Melissani cave at the right time of day, the ceiling lets in just enough light to make the water color go crazy, turning a transparent bright blue.
This travel guide will explain how to get to the Melissani lake, when is the best time to visit, current entrance fees, best tour packages, and everything else you need to know before you go!
If you’re looking for the best day tours on Kefalonia island, we recommend GetYourGuide! 
They have high rated tours that visit many of the best sights like Melissani Lake, Antisamos Beach, and Assos Village. These tours usually include free hotel pickup and drop-off from most of the popular areas in Kefalonia.
We’ve used this company for lots of day tours and activities around the world, and they’re great! Highly recommended.
 
Melissani cave is explored by paddleboat. You walk down a flight of stairs and through a narrow tunnel into the cave, and then hop onto a small boat with about a dozen other tourists and a local Greek boatman.
The boatman will circle the lake and take you to the back of the cave, where you can see impressive stalagmites and other sights. It’s a magnificent cave with a cool temperature, and the lake is up to 30 meters deep in some spots.
I would almost say this is a 
 item that every world traveler needs to see, although the boat ride is a bit short and the lake is really dependent on the right lighting in order to look its best.
Rowboats on the stunning Melissani Lake
Because of its beauty, Melissani has become one of the most popular 
, so you’ll usually have to queue to see it. During the high season months, the line to get in can take anywhere from 10 to 40 minutes.
Even though the boat ride itself is short (about 10 minutes), it’s loaded with good photo opportunities! If you’re lucky, you can sometimes see eels swimming around in the lake too. 
It’s a great little adventure! I enjoyed it so much I actually got back in line and paid to tour the cave a second time, although for most people seeing it just one time will probably be enough.
  
During the summer months (May to October), the Melissani cave is open from 9 AM to 7 PM. During the winter months, the cave is only open on Thursdays and weekends, from 10 AM to 4 PM.
The entrance fee for the boat trips is 8 Euros per person for adults. Kids are half price. If you also plan to visit 
 (which you should!), then there’s a combo ticket that includes both Melissani and Drogarati caves for only 10 Euros, which is a great deal.
These hours and ticket prices are current as of 2022, but they may change over time since this place is a popular tourist attraction.
Impressive ceiling and stalagmites at the back of the cave
The color of the Melissani lake is stunning if you come at the right time of day.
Mid-day around 11 AM to 1 PM is the best time to see the cave, because that’s when the sun is highest in the sky, lighting up the colors of the lake. Unfortunately, that’s also the busiest time to visit, so be prepared to wait.
The biggest crowds are generally from noon to 1 PM, so you can avoid most of it by getting there before then. If you aren’t a photographer, it probably doesn’t matter too much when you visit. Honestly, the lake is impressive at any time of day as long as the sun is shining!
Melissani Cave Lake — one of the best 
 Greece!
No, unfortunately you can’t swim in the Melissani cave. The only way to see the lake is by paddleboat. Maybe that’s a good thing, though, because it keeps the water clean.
If you’re looking for a good place to swim, check out Antisamos Beach near Sami!
  
Melissani cave is located in central 
, near the town of Sami.
Kefalonia is easy to reach from Athens, the capital of Greece, as well as nearby islands like 
. There are daily flights and ferries for reasonable prices.
If you’re looking for more information about how to get to Kefalonia island, you can find that in my complete 
.
  
Melissani cave is easy to reach on a paved road from the harbor town of Sami.
You can drive there yourself, or 
. It’s a 5 minute drive from Sami, or 40 minutes from the Argostoli area.
You can use the map below to direct you to the parking area for the cave.
  
During ancient times, Melissani cave was inhabited and used as a place for worshipping the Greek god Pan and the nymph Melissanthi. According to Greek mythology, the nymph Melissanthi took her own life in the lake because Pan rejected her love.
The ceiling of the cave is believed to have collapsed during an earthquake, revealing the hidden lake inside. The cave was first explored by Ioannis Petrocheilos in 1951, and some artifacts related to Pan were found at that time, which you can now see at the Archeological Museum of Argostoli in Kefalonia.
The Melissani cave was opened to the public in 1963, and it’s become one of the most popular tourist attractions on the island of 
!
  
Thanks for looking! I hope you enjoyed this travel guide for the Melissani cave lake in Kefalonia, Greece.
Don’t forget to check out my complete 
 for more information about this scenic island in the Ionian Sea!
 
 
 
Hey there! I'm 
, an American who has been traveling the world full time for 8 years now. 
 
 My wife Intan and I are usually in our second home 
, but our journeys take us to 
 all over the world. 
 
 Please tag along!
Subscribe to my newsletter for the latest blog posts, tips, & travel guides. Let's stay updated!
© The World Travel Guy 2024 
 
 
 • 
 • 
 
 
 Some of the pages on my travel blog contain affiliate links. Whenever you buy something through one of these links, I get a small commission 
. As an affiliate, I only recommend products and services that I feel are high quality and helpful to my readers. Thanks for your support.
